knowledge_base/Custom-Domains.md, before:

# Custom Domains

## Contents

- [Local Testing](#local-testing)
- [Staging Testing](#staging-testing)
- [Heroku](#heroku)
- [Airplane (default method for prod)](#airplane-default-method-for-prod)
- [Workflow](#workflow)
- [External Dependencies](#external-dependencies)
- [Change Log](#change-log)

## Local Testing

Configure a `Chain` in the database to use a custom domain (via the `custom_domain` column) at `whateveryouwant.com`.

Add an entry to /etc/hosts:

```txt
127.0.0.1 whateveryouwant.com
```

Run a local SSL proxy:

```bash
npm install -g local-ssl-proxy
local-ssl-proxy --source 443 --target 8080
```

Go to <https://whateveryouwant.com> and verify that it loads as expected (you might need to bypass the cert restrictions).

## Staging Testing

1. In heroku, for some staging environment create a custom domain for [custom-domain]

2. In the DNS manager for [custom-domain], add a CNAME to point it to the staging environments custom domain

3. Run ```heroku pg:psql --app=[staging-environment-name] -c "update \"Chains\" set custom_domain = '[custom-domain]' where id = '[chain-to-test]'"```

## Heroku

1. Go to Heroku > settings > custom domain section
1. get [whatever].herokudns.com ⇒ then "use wherever"
1. (must) wait for ACM status to be “ready or green check”
1. if that’s taking a while, just delete the record, and re add it (the use Let’s Encrypt)
1. it may take some time

## Airplane (default method for prod)

Airplane has a [task](https://app.airplane.dev/runbooks/rbk20220809zm9b1vxoi7e) set up to automate the process of adding a custom domain in 3 stages.

1. Updates the Chain entry to reflect the new custom domain.
2. Hit heroku /domains endpoint, which spins up a DNS target and is returned to the airplane user. At this step, the DNS target must be shared with the customer and a confirmation that they have added a CNAME record must be obtained.
3. Refreshes the Heroku ACM via the heroku CLI. This is manually performed after step 2 is complete.

## Workflow

1. A DNS target is made for the custom domain in heroku.
2. The domain is put in the "Chains" table under the custom_domain column
3. When a client makes a request to the custom domain, our customDomainRoutes.tsx routes paths to not need the scope, passes scope into the component

## External Dependencies

When adding a new custom domain, ensure you update the following external whitelists:

- For Login: magic.link
- For Chain Data: alchemy.com (ETH mainnet) or quicknode.com (BSC, Fantom)

## Change Log

- 240415: Flagged by Graham Johnson as possibly obsolete in light of abandoning Airplane.
- 230515: Updated with Staging Testing section by Kurtis Assad
- 230321: Updated with Airplane section by Alex Young
- 230227: Authored by Jake Naviaski.

Commit message:

Set up custom domain config task for admin panel.

knowledge_base/Custom-Domains.md, after:

# Custom Domains

## Contents

- [Local Testing](#local-testing)
- [Staging Testing](#staging-testing)
- [Heroku](#heroku)
- [Workflow](#workflow)
- [External Dependencies](#external-dependencies)
- [Change Log](#change-log)

## Local Testing

Configure a `Chain` in the database to use a custom domain (via the `custom_domain` column) at `whateveryouwant.com`.

Add an entry to /etc/hosts:

```txt
127.0.0.1 whateveryouwant.com
```

Run a local SSL proxy:

```bash
npm install -g local-ssl-proxy
local-ssl-proxy --source 443 --target 8080
```

Go to <https://whateveryouwant.com> and verify that it loads as expected (you might need to bypass the cert restrictions).

## Staging Testing

1. In heroku, for some staging environment create a custom domain for [custom-domain]

2. In the DNS manager for [custom-domain], add a CNAME to point it to the staging environments custom domain

3. Run ```heroku pg:psql --app=[staging-environment-name] -c "update \"Chains\" set custom_domain = '[custom-domain]' where id = '[chain-to-test]'"```

## Heroku

1. Go to Heroku > settings > custom domain section
1. Get [whatever].herokudns.com ⇒ then "use wherever". Communicate this with the external client, who must configure it on their side.
1. Wait for ACM status to be “ready or green check”, once configured on external client's DNS provider.
1. If that’s taking a while, just delete the record, and re add it (the use Let’s Encrypt).
1. Once completed, use the admin panel to add the custom domain to the community.

## External Dependencies

When adding a new custom domain, ensure you update the following external whitelists:

- For Login: magic.link
- For Chain Data: alchemy.com (ETH mainnet only)

## Change Log

- 240415: Flagged by Graham Johnson as possibly obsolete in light of abandoning Airplane.
- 230515: Updated with Staging Testing section by Kurtis Assad
- 230321: Updated with Airplane section by Alex Young
- 230227: Authored by Jake Naviaski.
