# Datadog

We use Datadog for three things: for metrics, for alerts, and to ingest logs from [Heroku](./Heroku.md).

The Datadog dashboard can be located at <us5.datadoghq.com>. NB: We use the US5 region; attempts to login and access the dashboard from other regions will silently fail.

## Metrics

### StatsDController

In the codebase, we use our `StatsDController` (`common-common/src/statsd`) to increment counters and add tags.

For instance, every time `TokenBalanceCache` successfully fetches, we call `.increment` on the controller and then tag the count accordingly, allowing us to easily locate the relevant metrics from Datadog's dashboard, create charts/graphic visualizations.

### Remapping Heroku Metrics

Because we host through Heroku, we cannot set up raw metrics the way we normally might in Datadog. Metrics set up using the Datadog dashboard, using the provided member usage or CPU usage statistics, will be inaccurate, since the metrics reported are from the underlying server instance, and not from the relevant dyno container.

To set up up dyno-scoped metrics on Datadog:

1. Enable Heroku Labs Log Runtime metrics. Heroku will log dyno metrics directly into our regular log feed.

2. Set up Datadog to parse these logs and extract the data we need from them. Datadog ingests logs from Heroku in raw format and passes them through a pipeline which parses and remaps the log metrics. (Heroku buildpack takes care of this pipeline for us.) To display these metrics on the main dashboard, we need to create a Datadog Measure. A Datadog Measure is a key-value pair consisting of a number and reference string. To create a new Measure from the dashboard, select the parsed value from the event attributes, navigate to “Create Measure,” name it, and click "Add."

### Postgres Metrics

For a list of available `postgresql` metrics, see <https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/postgres/?tab=host#metrics>.

Because we host through Heroku, not all these metrics will be reported; the only way to know is to create a metric and find out.

## Alerts

Every Heroku dyno emits a service heartbeat to Datadog every X seconds (e.g. 30, 60) to say “I’m alive.” If the heartbeat isn’t received, Datadog emits an alert to our #eng-feed-datadog Slack channel.










`Warning:` Following steps below may lead your app to restart several times, please choose appropriate maintainance window.

## Helpful guides

- [Generic Datadog Heroku Agent Guide](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/basic_agent_usage/heroku/)
- [Datadtog Postgres Guide](
https://docs.datadoghq.com/database_monitoring/guide/heroku-postgres/#pagetitle)

## Prerequisites

**Setup Environment Variable**

```bash
  DD_AGENT_MAJOR_VERSION=7
  DD_API_KEY=<SECRET-DATADOG-ACCOUNT-KEY>
  DD_DYNO_HOST=true
  DD_LOG_LEVEL=WARN
  DD_SITE=us5.datadoghq.com
  DD_ENABLE_HEROKU_POSTGRES=true #postgres specific
  DD_HEROKU_CONF_FOLDER=packages/commonwealth/datadog
```

**Install Datadog Buildpack**
This can be done by copying the following URL on Heroku App settings page using `Add Buildpack` button:

```
https://github.com/Datadog/heroku-buildpack-datadog.git
```

**Datadog Postgres Config**

- Root folder of our app is same as base folder for monorepo, put Postgres Datadog config in root folder of an Heroku app

Postgres config file `datadog/conf.d/postgres.yaml`
Leave file generic, parameters would be replace by `prerun.sh` on runtime if available

```
init_config:

instances:
  - dbm: true
    host: <YOUR HOSTNAME>
    port: <YOUR PORT>
    username: <YOUR USERNAME>
    password: <YOUR PASSWORD>
    dbname: <YOUR DBNAME>
    ssl: True
```

## Verify on Datadog

Visit `https://us5.datadoghq.com/dashboard/lists` for all available dashboards.

Available Postgres Dashboards:

- `Postgres - Metrics`
- `Postgres - Overview`

If datadog agent picked up postgres config & setting properly, you will see your app database name in top dropdown on postgres dashabords

## Dashboard

As of 240102, only the main dashboard can be trusted for accurate data reports. Many of the autogenerated dashboards report data differently, leading to inconsistency or errors.

## Change Log

- 240102: Rewritten by Graham Johnson with assistance of Timothee Legros.
- 231031: Split off by Graham Johnson from `commonwealth/README.md`. Flagged for overhaul.
