packages/commonwealth/README.md, before:

# Commonwealth

Commonwealth is an all-in-one platform for on-chain communities to discuss, vote, and fund projects together.

## Quickstart

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hicommonwealth/commonwealth.git
```

To install dependencies using Docker, navigate into the `packages/commonwealth` directory and run `docker-compose up`.

If you are not using Docker, you will need to manually install Postgres. Run the following commands in bash:

```bash
brew install node yarn postgresql

brew services start postgresql

psql postgres -c "CREATE ROLE commonwealth WITH LOGIN PASSWORD 'edgeware'; ALTER ROLE commonwealth SUPERUSER;"

psql postgres -h 127.0.0.1 -U commonwealth -c "CREATE DATABASE commonwealth;"
```

This should start a new Postgres server with superuser `commonwealth` and password `edgeware`.

To get a fresh production database dump from Heroku, run `yarn dump-db`. To reset, seed, and migrate your local database using the obtained dump file, run `yarn db-all`. Enter `edgeware` if prompted for a password.

To start the app, run `yarn start`.

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file at the `package/commonwealth` level to store minimum security environment variables. Higher security secrets should be stored inside an `.auth` file.

The following environment variables should allow you to get started:

```sh
DATABASE_URI=postgresql://commonwealth:edgeware@localhost/commonwealth
ENTITIES_URL=https://chain-events.herokuapp.com/api
MAGIC_DEFAULT_CHAIN='ethereum'
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379
SERVER_URL=https://commonwealth.im
```

Commit message:

Add Environment Variable Documentation (#6180)
* First pass purging

* First days progress adding env docu

* Add spreadsheet notes to docs

* Update per 5892

* Rm vars per 5925

* DRY up server_url returns in getThread

* Env var progress

* Clean up, add TOC

* Rm improper caps

* Add DL_BUILD, tweaks

* Bad import fix

* Add DD vars

* Requested changes

* Purge outdated TOC entry

* Tweaks rnd 2

* Update heroku entry

* Update knowledge_base/Environment-Variables.md

Co-authored-by: Timothee Legros <62490329+timolegros@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address JNaviask review comments

* Add ETH RPC doc

* Update env.example

* Update RSA key info

---------

Co-authored-by: Timothee Legros <62490329+timolegros@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/commonwealth/README.md, after:

# Commonwealth

Commonwealth is an all-in-one platform for on-chain communities to discuss, vote, and fund projects together.

## Quickstart

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hicommonwealth/commonwealth.git
```

To install dependencies using Docker, navigate into the `packages/commonwealth` directory and run `docker-compose up`.

If you are not using Docker, you will need to manually install Postgres. Run the following commands in bash:

```bash
brew install node yarn postgresql

brew services start postgresql

psql postgres -c "CREATE ROLE commonwealth WITH LOGIN PASSWORD 'edgeware'; ALTER ROLE commonwealth SUPERUSER;"

psql postgres -h 127.0.0.1 -U commonwealth -c "CREATE DATABASE commonwealth;"
```

This should start a new Postgres server with superuser `commonwealth` and password `edgeware`.

To get a fresh production database dump from Heroku, run `yarn dump-db`. To reset, seed, and migrate your local database using the obtained dump file, run `yarn db-all`. Enter `edgeware` if prompted for a password.

To start the app, run `yarn start`.

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file at the `package/commonwealth` level to store minimum security environment variables. Higher security secrets should be stored inside an `.auth` file.

Use the [.env.example](../../.env.example) file to get yourself set up.
